Add icarus post (#13)
pennlabs/pennlabs.org: src/blog/building-icarus.md

---

> title: 'Icarus - Taming the Kubernetes Beast'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Icarus: Taming the Kubernetes Beast'
```
Think the colon looks better for subtitles

slug: building-icarus
authors: ['pawalt']
publishedAt: 2020-05-27
coverPhoto: ../images/blog/icarus.jpg
---

> As of recent, we've moved our infrastructure away from [Dokku](http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/) and onto [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/). Especially for an organization with high turnover (nature of being a club), you have to carefully consider the organizational impacts of moving to a technology as complex as Kubernetes. This post should serve as a bit of insight into how we dealt with that challenge and built technology to solve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, we've moved our infrastructure away from [Dokku](http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/) and onto [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/). Especially for an organization with high turnover (nature of being a club), you have to carefully consider the organizational impacts of moving to a technology as complex as Kubernetes. This post should serve as a bit of insight into how we dealt with that challenge and built technology to solve it.
```

Reviewer: I also think this paragraph could be reworded a decent bit -- "Especially for an organization with high turnover (nature of being a club), you have to carefully consider the organizational impacts of moving to a technology as complex as Kubernetes." is kind of a mouthful. Maybe flip it around: "As a student organization [or club], we have to be cognizant of the fact that members turn over all the time. Because of this, we have to carefully consider the organizational impacts of moving to a technology as complex as Kubernetes"

Author: Hows this?

> ## Background

Reviewer: Maybe a sentence or two on what kubernetes is? doesn't have to answer every question, some thing like "Kubernetes is an orchestration system which coordinates hosting many applications at once" obviously that's me saying it so it's not right but uk what i mean

Reviewer: If not answering "what is Kubernetes," then maybe "what do we use kubernetes for?" We use it to host and manage docker containers containing our web applications

Author: I'll answer what we use it for. If they want to find out what it is, Google will do a better job than me.

This system works great for teams with complicated application architectures whose applications might require special features like persistent volumes, cross-datacenter availability, complex scheduling requirements, etc. Think teams running Cassandra clusters, Solr clusters, or database services. In this model, SREs on each team can fit the Kubernetes configs to each team's needs. The clear drawback, however, is that your number of SREs required scales linearly with your number of teams.

Because of the (relative) simplicity of Penn Labs' applications and only having 2-3 SREs to service 5 teams, we determined that this pattern was not an option.

### Pattern 2: Platform Team

In this pattern, there is a single team (or organization) that is responsible for building a high-level platform that other teams can use to deploy their applications. Building a platform involves significant up-front engineering work and a strong team to build the automation and interfaces required in order to create a frictionless deployment experience.

> This approach typically works best for applications with simple architectures. If you can restrict your applications to following similar architectures, you can build a platform that takes advantage of those shared architecture, abstracting away the common configuration required by your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach typically works best for applications with simple architectures. If you can restrict your applications to have similar architectures, you can build a platform that takes advantage of those shared architecture, abstracting away the common configuration.
```

> In Labs, all of our web applications follow similar architectures: a single frontend (usually React) and a monolithic backend (usually Django). Since we have a common, simple architecture and we don't have the personell to man every team with an SRE, we decided to go with the platform approach. This approach fit nicely into our organizational structure since we already have a platform team that manages our [authentication system](https://github.com/pennlabs/platform).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Penn Labs, all of our web applications follow similar architectures: a single frontend (usually React) and a monolithic backend (usually Django). Since we have a common, simple architecture and we don't have the personnel to staff every team with an SRE, we decided to go with the platform approach. This approach fit nicely into our organizational structure since we already have a platform team that manages our [authentication system](https://github.com/pennlabs/platform) for all of our products.
```

Reviewer: Style guide point: externally we always say "Penn Labs" instead of just "Labs." Valencia made that point on all our recruiting materials 🙃

          ports:
            - containerPort: 80
          envFrom:
            - secretRef:
                name: test-secret
---
# Source: icarus/templates/ingresses.yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: testsite-serve
  namespace: default
spec:
  rules:
    - host: "pennlabs.org"
      http:
        paths:
          - path: "/"
            backend:
              serviceName: testsite-serve
              servicePort: 80
  tls:
    - hosts:
        - "pennlabs.org"
      secretName: pennlabs-org-tls
---
# Source: icarus/templates/certificates.yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1alpha2
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: pennlabs-org
  annotations:
    "helm.sh/resource-policy": keep
spec:
  secretName: pennlabs-org-tls
  dnsNames:
  - "pennlabs.org"
  - "*.pennlabs.org"
  issuerRef:
    name: wildcard-letsencrypt-prod
    kind: ClusterIssuer
    group: cert-manager.io
```

As mentioned earlier, in our applications we can make the following assumptions to make our lives easier:

- There will be exactly one container per application
- That application, if exposed to the world, will speak HTTP and want to be secured with HTTPS

> - That application will use secrets synced into Kubernetes by our Vault secret sync job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- That application will use secrets synced into Kubernetes by our [Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) secret sync job
```

spec:
  type: {{ .svc_type }}
  ports:
    - port: {{ .port }}
      targetPort: {{ .port }}
  selector:
    name: {{ $app_id | quote }}
```

Helm lets you define default values, so in Icarus, we set `.svc_type` to be `ClusterIP` by default and `.port` to be 80 by default. We also set `$app_id` to be `<repository_name>-<application_name>`. Applying these rules, we get the resulting configuration that we see above:

```yaml
# Source: icarus/templates/services.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: "testsite-serve"
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
    - port: 80
      targetPort: 80
  selector:
    name: "testsite-serve"
```

Icarus works simply by applying substitutions like this to create the final Kubernetes manifests, and then we use the DigitalOcean API to automate the deployment of these manifests to our actual cluster. I'm glossing over a lot of detail here, but feel free to check out our [deploy orb](https://github.com/pennlabs/orb-helm-tools/blob/master/src/commands/deploy.yml) for the specifics.

## End Result

There's been a lot of talk here about organizational philosophy and YAML templating, but let's circle back to what this system actually gives us.

> When one of our developers wants to create a new application, they can, completely independently, create a Git repo, add in a small CI config file, create their Icarus file, and add their proper secrets into Vault. Once that's done, they can Git push up, and their application will be published to the domain of their choice in just a few minutes. If you ask me, that's pretty cool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When one of our developers wants to create a new application, they can, completely independently, create a Git repo, add in a small CI config file, create their Icarus file, and add their proper secrets into Vault. Once that's done, they can push upstream to GitHub, and their application will be published to the domain they specified in their Icarus config in just a few minutes. If you ask me, that's pretty cool.
```

## Reach Out

> If any of this looks like it's up your alley or you wanna learn more about our mission, be sure to contact us at contact@pennlabs.org or [apply to be a part of Labs](https://pennlabs.org/apply)! We've got some fantastic teams working on interesting problems with a direct impact on campus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of this looks like it's up your alley or you wanna learn more about our mission, be sure to contact us at [contact@pennlabs.org](mailto:contact@pennlabs.org) or [apply to be a part of Labs](https://pennlabs.org/apply)! We've got some fantastic teams working on interesting problems with a direct impact on campus.
```
